---
layout: post
title: "MLflow"
author: "Ankit"
tags: mlflow
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---


## Get ML flowing with MLflow


One thing that echoes a lot in ML community is that ML deployment is hard or MLOps is hard.
*It is indeed*. But, standard practices of ML lifecycles are taking shape, and some credit for that goes to MLflow.
As we know ML lifecycle is unlike traditional SDLC. Let's understand some difference and how **MLflow** plugs the gaps. 


#### What's different in ML lifecycle 
1. No standard practice

There is no best way to do ML, it totally depends on DS. 
A Data scientist can choose SQL, ML framework, deployment environments flavor to his liking and understanding 
An when same code is passed to DE/MLE it becomes challenging to replicate same results

2. Framework nuances and infrastructure limitations

ML libs and frameworks are not standardized and their API vary a lot. This leads to building framework specific wrapper and deployment infrastructure rework.
Also, lack of integrations with infrastructure. Platform are tied to company specific infrastructure and ML frameworks being specific themselves, options for deployment gets limited.

3. Iterative nature

Getting ML models to perform takes significant trial and error, continuous configuration, building, tuning, testing etc.
After numerous iterations tracking changes in data pipeline and model artifacts becomes hard. If training happened 50 times using 10 different algorithms using 10 different set features on 10 datasets with differing lineage and tons of hyperparameters. It becomes difficult to understand changes and improvements if the iterations were not well documented

4. Performance tracking

ML model performance depends on algorithm parameter and quality of data set. Which needs to be consistently monitored. Continuously tracking model performance and data drift is crucial to business but hard to do.

#### MLfLow
It is an open-source machine learning platform for managing the complete ML lifecycle.

MLflow is designed to be a cross-cloud, modular, API-first framework, to work well with all popular ML frameworks and libraries. It is open and extensible by design, and platform agnostic for maximum flexibility. That's a mouthful. But, yeah it does all that. Let's look at its features:-

1. Experiment tracking

It allows DS to quickly record runs and keep track of model parameters, results, code and data from each experiment, all in one place.

2. Reproducibility

It allows DS to build and package composable projects, capture dependencies and code history for reproducible results, and quickly share projects with their peers.

3. Flexible deployment

It allows DS to quickly download or deploy any saved models to various platforms — locally or in the cloud — from experimentation to production.

4. Model registry

It allows DS to share ML models, collaborate on moving them from experimentation to online testing and production, integrate with approval and governance workflows, and monitor ML deployments and their performance.

*MLflow makes work of DS/DE/MLE a lot easier.*
